okay so I thought we should begin this
session
by basically uh
summarizing the arguments of David's
essay uh there never was a a West I
think there are five arguments and I
would summarize them this
way uh David argues that it is a false
assumption that democracy is a western
concept uh that began in ancient Greece
and was fully
realized in Western Europe and the and
North America in the uh 18th and 19th
centuries uh parallel to that He
suggests that this concept Western
Civilization is
incoherent and that it is an invented
intellectual
tradition that's that's the first
argument
the second is and this of course is an
idea that's very Central to David's work
Democratic and egalitarian processes of
decision
making occur
everywhere they occur in all Traditions
they occur in all cultures all
civilizations around the world certainly
not just in the so-called
West okay so that's a second argument
the third is that in the 19th and 20th
centuries Elite politicians and
intellectuals most everywhere but
especially in the west uh created their
own self-serving genealogies of
democracy which they then linked in that
time period to the coercive mechanisms
of the state that's a quotation from
David these societies are not
Democratic but they do have Democratic
elements democracy without
coercion is uh as opposed to democracy
with coercion this is a crucial
distinction in David's thinking so
that's Point number three the fourth
point is that the Contemporary crisis of
democracy now he's writing in 2007 and
in many ways he was precient because the
crisis of democracy has only
worsened since then the Contemporary
crisis of democracy is a crisis of the
state that's argument number four and
then finally He suggests this is very
much in keeping with his own experience
that most democratic
practices emerge from global social
movements and he adds that these global
social movements represent uh the future
of the concept without those movements
the the very ideas and practices of
democracy will not be renewed in other
words this has to happen from the bottom
up okay so I think those are the five
main arguments of the essay just to get
everybody on the same page I'm not sure
how recently everyone has read it now in
my view the essay holds up very well
after 17 years he wrote it a good while
ago but it holds up very well one major
reason for this is that lots of new
research has been done on subjects he
treats in the essay some of that work
was done by David himself I might add
and that these support the fundamental
arguments uh of the
essay for example the broad and fierce
attack on
eurocentrism which has been going on for
a while now this is not uh identical to
David's purpose but it is similar and we
do all know that the attacks on
eurocentrism have come from many
different quarters with quite
devastating results now this doesn't
mean that uh
intellectuals and politicians in Western
Europe and the United States don't
continue to use this eurocentric model
it Still Remains quite powerful and in
many ways dominant but the dissenting
voices have been
strong okay now in this
essay I'm happy to say and not surprised
to say we see a lot of David's
characteristic traits as both a writer
and a
thinker for example the deep and wide
ranging
erudition he's very knowledgeable about
many different parts of the world over a
very broad span of time we see lots of
wit and humor
we see and this I kind of find
fascinating we see a really intimate
relationship with the reader he has a
way of of entering into conversations
with the reader that are are quite
compelling that's and and then finally
uh I would say that he is David
possesses very sharp and I would
actually say cutting pical skills this
this is a bit of a lost art to be able
to write a pmic he was really good at it
and of course anyone who has done this
kind of work
knows excuse me knows that a new
idea is worth a forceful
exaggeration so let me give you an
example of the
humor excuse me
one example of the humor that I liked
very much a common definition of
civilization David says is basically
quote people reading one another's books
end quote and of course that makes the
very idea of civilization sound
ridiculous as if uh life could be
reduced to printed texts of course it
can uh and I'll just add uh that David
is a very Charming
companion on any political or
intellectual voyage and that is true in
this case uh I would also add that we
can see some of the ideas in this essay
that will emerge with full force in the
dawn of everything pirate Enlightenment
and other subsequent
writings okay so the main purpose of the
essay as I read it is to offer a new new
genealogy of
democracy in other words to reclaim the
concept for the people who really
created the concept and he does this by
delinking delinking democracy from
Western
civilization and suggesting instead that
the idea emerges from below and
crucially this is a big part of his
argument in what he calls the spaces in
between
from indigenous societies from
Frontiers and from tall ships at Sea
among many other
places now let me give you a quote which
I think sums up uh David's
argument uh quote democratic
practice whether defined as procedures
of egalitarian decisionmaking or
government by public discussion
tends to emerge from situations in which
communities of one sort or
another manage their own Affairs outside
the purview of the state end quote and I
would add that in some important
instances democracy emerges when those
groups uh manage their own Affairs
against the state not just a part for it
but consciously against
it now one
example of this uh decisionmaking space
that is very dear to my heart and also
was dear to David's is the pirate
ship he calls the pirate ship and I must
say I love this the perfect
Intercultural space of
experiment and and I must say I always
regarded what happened on these pirate
ships
as a huge social
experiment now to the extent that David
draws upon my research and making many
of the arguments about the pirate ship
in democracy I have to say he is
completely
right I say that jokingly uh but I would
also point to the fact that his thought
evolved over time in other words he said
in this essay that we have no evidence
that pirate democra influenced Western
democratic theory or philosophy but of
course we do have evidence of that and
David himself would change his mind
about this 15 years later when he's
writing a pirate Enlightenment so we do
see connections between this Democratic
experiment From Below which is carried
uh around the Atlantic by workingclass
people mostly Sailors and you see it
enter Democratic discourse and practice
in lots of other
places now I want to make a comparison
here and uh I'll do this again later in
the talk between this essay and a book
that Peter lall and I wrote called the
many head Hydra Sailors slaves commoners
and the hidden history of the
Revolutionary Atlantic which was
published uh in the year 2000 this book
has a lot of affinities with David's
essay and with other parts of his work
but here's how Peter and I handled this
issue of uh democracy From Below uh
especially as it related to pirate
ships we showed that the pirate ship was
part of a much broader tradition of
Maritime
radicalism in other words that it came
out of the culture of ordinary working
Sailors as they traveled all around the
Atlantic and even Beyond in the 17th and
the 18th centuries and what this
tradition of Maritime radicalism allowed
us to see we by the way we called it
hydy which means the government
self-government on the waters we called
it hydar what this allowed us to see was
an unusual set of connections that had
previously been considered to be
completely separate I'm referring here
to the English Revolution to piracy to
urban riots led by Sailors to slave
revolts to strikes and by the way I hope
all of you know the strike was in fact
invented by Sailors in
1768 but also connections to mutinies
and then to in the later 18th and early
19th century the entire age of
Revolution so the pirate ship was
actually part of something much
bigger something that had much greater
reach geographical reach and much
greater
influence uh and as I've said we call
this hydar meaning the
self-organization of seafaring people
from below now another concept which we
use which David doesn't doesn't use but
I think his his thinking is very much in
in keeping with this another concept
that proved useful to us is mly
crew now mle crew was a a force on ships
uh in port cities and around the
Atlantic in the 18th century and after
um and what the the the value of this in
my view was that mly crew allowed us to
think
heterogeneity within the context of the
work
group in the context of a group that had
a specific appointed task like sailing a
ship or unloading a ship or more
subversively leading uprisings in these
port cities which the mly crew
frequently did now the mly crew means a
multiethnic and multiracial combination
of
people uh and I think this is a this
this is a revolutionary subject in the
18th and 19th century very important and
like I say even though David doesn't use
that phrase I think the same conception
of mly
humanity is very Central to his
vision okay
so let's talk now about a few specifics
of the
essay the essay
begins I think very effectively with a
takedown of a book by a man named Samuel
Huntington it is called The Clash of
civilization
ations I think David's critique of this
is probably the best I've ever
read but if it was as David says
ridiculously easy to refute Huntington
in
2007 it's even easier
today respectable thinkers do not take
his theory of the class clash of
civilization seriously anymore and part
of this is because of David's critique
so I would suggest we not spend too much
time on this part of the
essay here are some other important
points in my view that emerged from the
essay first of all the makers of Western
Civilization not only
sanitized but
nationalized their own history refusing
to acknowledge their connections to the
rest of the world David said these
histories is are very entangled that's a
word that he uses um and that
entanglement was basically kept out of
the national
histories now uh I might add imperialism
is a very good thing to try to hide and
if you're going to talk about relations
to other parts of the world whether
you're in Britain France Spain the
United States you're going to have to
talk about
imperialism I also like David's critique
of the methodological
individualism of what he calls the
Western
eye or could call it the Western
gaze one big example of which was his
own discipline that is
anthropology which was inextricably tied
to colonizing projects from its very
beginning so the individual
individualizing eye has very serious
consequences for how one can understand
democracy because that individualizing
eye cannot comprehend the collective
practices of people outside of
Europe but it
could reduce and it did reduce those
societies outside of Europe to objects
of violence and do and domination
that's another very interesting idea
that comes out of this
book it is also true as David says that
the founding fathers of the United
States people like George Washington
Thomas Jefferson James Madison that
early
generation they were very
aristocratic and they were most of them
enslavers
and they were absolutely terrified by
the idea and the practice of
democracy he's absolutely right about
this they're reading in classical
political theory for example uh in
Antiquity Greek and Roman Antiquity made
them very fearful of democracy uh they
were also very fearful of the idea of
equality that's very important to know
and they did as David says see democracy
is essentially mob
rule even more precisely I think they
saw it as sheer Anarchy that if the
lower classes should ever gain political
power that would mean sheer Anarchy now
those lower classes were frequently
organized well organized among
themselves the disorder they would have
created would have been for the upper
class and this of course is why they uh
why they
detested the concept of democracy so
much
now excuse
me this brings up a larger point which I
think is uh very important in the essay
neither democracy nor equality will ever
come from
above and there's a pretty simple reason
why those up above May Grant certain
Democratic rights under pressure
pressure under Fierce pressure but they
will never grant them as a gift because
those things ideas of democracy and
equality must come from below because
they are checks on ruling class
power really important to say that okay
so these are all very important parts of
this essay and as I say it it reads very
well these many years later I find a
great deal to age with it but I do have
three criticisms I want to make I don't
think they undermine the central
arguments but they invite us to think a
little bit differently about some of the
themes that David has
raised one thing that I think is largely
missing from the essay in this analysis
is the history of
capitalism the word capitalism appears
in the essay only four times and three
of the times come when David is talking
about a debate about the origins of
capitalism I think it would be safe to
say that capitalism is really not part
of the theoretical apparatus for
analyzing either democracy or western
civilization and and I think this is a
shame because I think we do need that
concept because it was precisely in this
context of the global rise of capitalism
that modern conceptions of democracy
even the statist conceptions of
democracy uh however limited they were
and they were
limited those conceptions in western
civilization were originally formed
within that broader uh economic
context of the rise of capitalism now I
don't entirely agree with David that
there never was a
West although I accept many of the
points he makes about it I think there
was a material social formation
called or self-c calleded the west and
that the core of this is not
democracy no matter how self-serving the
genealogy may have been but rather the
far-reaching practices of global
capitalism the violent practices of
global capitalism this is the core of
the West this is its core as these
rapacious Imperial states on the western
edge of of Eurasia it's a tiny part of
the world you look at it on the map as
they built these Blue Water empires in
the 17th and the 18th century they
dressed themselves up as the forebears
of
democracy in order to hide the bloody
origins of capitalism in other words
they could present their project as a
hopeful one for Humanity rather than
showing what it was it was a v project
in which millions of people were
expropriated from the
land it was a project in which the
destruction of the commons was at its
very heart in many parts of the world it
was a project of building two systems a
plantation system and a factory system
which were always closely
interlined all of these things are based
on violence we need to remember that
based on Extreme violence
expropriation and
exploitation and to this extent I'd say
that the concept of violence is also uh
underplayed in this book not that David
didn't know about it but it wasn't
really Central to the
argument now in the many-headed
Hydra violence was kind of the the
centerpiece of the
book we Peter lall and I chronicled One
Slaughter after
another one one Massacre after another
one mass hanging after another and of
course what we were showing was that
capitalism came into the world with
blood dripping from every poor as Carl
Marx famously put it this is crucial to
the process of resistance and it is also
crucial to the formation of new
alternative ideas and
practices uh during this time of extreme
violence it's a remarkable fact that the
the practices of democracy and uh
equality nonetheless Advanced and spread
over a very
broad uh uh space and over a long period
of
time by social movements of many
different kinds that were all connected
to Atlantic
capitalism now rulers in this process
saw themselves as
Hercules as they tried to build
transatlantic capitalism but of course
in building it they had extreme problems
trying to control the mly crew the
many-headed Hydra the sailors the
enslaved indentured servants Factory
workers women domestic workers they said
it's like trying to slay a Hydra and the
idea a was in that myth that classical
myth you cut off one head and two new
heads pop up somewhere else this is this
is really important and to give an
example of how this worked at the level
of intellectual history and even Elite
intellectual history the the French
philosopher
montain wrote a radical humanist
critique of imperialism in 1580 the very
moment when capitalism is breaking out
and moving around the world wrote an
essay called of
cannibals and the theme of this essay is
that the indigenous people were not
cannibals but that's of course what
colonizers had been calling them to
justify their Slaughter and enslavement
Montaine said no that's not true it's
the European colonizers who are the
cannibals now how did he come to this
conclusion
it's kind of a fascinating circuit it
turns out that Montaine had a
servant who had worked as a sailor and
had sailed to Brazil where he had gotten
to know a lot of these indigenous
people so he explained what they were
really like to Montaine and what he said
to them is that these are stateless
kingless Free People Freer than anybody
in Europe and now they are under attack
from these
colonizers and this is the circuit by
which Montaine issued created this very
famous critique of imperialism all
happening during this moment of the
origins of capitalism so that's the
first point I think we need a little
more on the history of capitalism
secondly I think we need a little more
history from below now David is
committed to that and here's something
that he writes just to prove that the
democ ratic
ideal did not emerge from the Western
literary philosophical
tradition it was rather imposed on it
end
quote it was imposed From Below but do
we get enough of who did the
imposing and how they did
it we need more history from below to
demonstrate not only origins of
democratic ideals but the agency of
people who were fighting to make those
ideas real okay now here a prime example
in my work has been the radical
Democratic and egalitarian ideas of
religious radicals in the English
revolution in the 1640s and
1650s people called the levelers the
diggers the ranters The Seekers the
mugal tonians the Quakers the Quakers
came here too all of whom are crucial to
an alternative genealogy of
democracy most people still don't know
that these radical Protestant groups
Advanced ideas of
Communism the advanced ideas of
abolitionism
they Advanced anti-war ideas they
Advanced feminist ideas they were
unbelievably modern and far ahead of
their time certainly uh much further
ahead of their time than the French
Revolution now these 17th century
radical thinkers had a huge influence in
their own day and on subsequent
philosophical thought on John lock for
example who in many ways was in dialogue
with the
levelers and on many other mainstream
thinkers but then what happened was that
these radical thinkers were basically
erased from history they were known but
nobody really appreciated what they had
done
until Christopher Hill the Great Marxist
historian Christopher Hill wrote a book
I would highly recommend it to everybody
here it's called Uh the world turned
upside down radical ideas during the
English Revolution published in 19
72 and what he'll shows is that these
thinkers need to be taken seriously now
they were a a motly crew themselves they
were Sailors they were dispossessed
commoners uh some were the middling sort
but they had very radical ideas so this
is really important to the genealogy of
democracy those ideas will come back up
this is one of the arguments of the
many-headed Hydra in subsequent uh
rebellions and resistance movements in
the 17th 18th and 19th century so this
this is kind of a a moment of origin
something similar happens in the
American
Revolution in which history from below
played a role that we don't fully
appreciate in most cases this is a a
chapter in the many headed Hydra about
the mly crew in the American Revolution
basically it was the resistance of
sailors usually in mobs crowds Urban
protests and the resistance of enslaved
people enslave revolts that propelled
the 13 colonies toward the Declaration
of Independence in
1776 what happened was when Elites
regained control of the movement they
wanted to divide the mle crew and they
did so using uh
conceptions of
citizenship Sailors didn't own property
and couldn't be citizens enslaved people
certainly couldn't be citizens so again
the division of the movement from above
divide and conquer is really important
but the agency in creating this movement
towards radical change happened From
Below happening in social movements but
not exactly in the spaces in between
this is actually taking place we would
say in the belly of the
Beast okay and then the third and final
uh criticism is that I don't think David
says enough about the racial dimensions
of Western civilization and here I would
urge everybody to remember a quite
extraordinary book by Martin
Bernal the late Martin Bernal uh who
wrote a book called black
Athena which is all about how Western
Europeans beginning in the late 18th
century systematically removed all
African
influences on the ancient world in order
to whiten that
tradition this is part of the building
of the genealogy that David critiques
Western Civilization it would be a white
Civilization now I find that race is
also insuff efficiently uh emphasized
for example scientific racism and white
supremacy destroyed many ideas of
democracy From Below that's important
and then in a new phase a new F
transatlantic phase of imperialism David
has this to say and it's absolutely true
and it's very important it was only in
the
1890s when Europeans began to see the
United States as part of the same Co
civilization and many then started using
the term democracy in its current sense
okay but we gotta sort of get back
behind this connection between Great
Britain and the United States in the
1890s the basis for their rap
rosma was something called racial anglos
sexism that they were descended from the
same White angloa
tribe this meant that both countries
both countries could now be
United in bringing to the so-called
darker peoples of the
world their Superior ingenious Freedom
loving Democratic
institutions this would be the gift of a
superior race to the rest of the
world so these are three issues I think
we could discuss the history of
capitalism history from below racialized
democracy uh you may have other U themes
from the essay you'd like to talk about
but I would like to conclude with one uh
question let's agree with David that a
proper genealogy of democracy can only
be understood from
below and that its real practices the
real practices of democracy emerg
primarily from social movements let's
admit that okay what is the Practical
implication of that
truth in a time when the limited forms
of Bourgeois representative democracy
are under attack and in retreat in so
many other parts of the
world and of course we have many
examples of that at hand okay I'll stop
right there and we can turn to
discussion
thank you so much Marcus so if anybody
wants to uh to ask question or to
comment so please raise your hand or you
can post it in uh in chat um
so if anyone wants to speak thank you so
much Marcus it was amazing um thank you
anyone I just see like people saying
fantastic um I had a question it might
be a little off topic but
related um so I read David's uh last
book and I was struck by um comment
comments he was making or statements
made in that book about um the limits of
centralized control and authority and
the ability
uh
and agreed with that to move further
away from the ability of that
centralized control to project power and
I wonder how that observation in that
later book um might be reflected in this
essay in your discussion around
multi-racial uh multiethnic um Pirates
you know the monly crew phenomenon and
that kind of almost self-organizing
yeah and I think it's not uh
accidental that a lot of the radical
Democratic experiments took place at Sea
because that was the hardest place for
these Imperial states to control not
that they don't try they try to project
their sovereignty onto the ships but the
oceans of the world are so vast and you
don't really have at that time the kind
of technology that will allow you to
control people who are vast distances
away at Sea and out from under the
institutional control of the
state so I think we could we could push
this point further uh maroon communities
these are places where enslaved people
ran away to build you know autonomous
worlds apart from Plantation they
frequently built them in mountainous
terrain uh mountains are very much like
the oceans that the authorities can't
project their power there very easily so
I do think we need a kind of there's
been good work on this we need a kind of
geographical conception of freedom and
democracy and equality these autonomous
spaces are are really really
important great thank
you um so Brandon Murphy is asking thank
you Marco great talk can you tell us
more about the
oops um piratical influence on the
formation of the
US Yes actually this is a this is a very
direct
connection um Pirates are basically
suppressed in the
1720s right the the the Golden Age of
pirates is well it's it's roughly 1670
to about 17 30 but the third and final
generation of pirates which I write
about and which David writes about
they're basically most of them
eliminated uh not the ones who went to
Madagascar but the ones who stayed in
the Atlantic um by about 1730 okay by
the
1740s there are massive riots in North
American
cities over the impressment of sailors
into the Royal na
these press gangs would go ashore and
literally see a sailor or any working
person on the waterfront and just
literally hit them with a club and carry
them back to the ship it was a kind of
slavery in fact what happened was
Sailors some of whom I'm sure were on
these pirate ships began to organize
crowds to fight the Press gangs in the
street this is this is really
fascinating now that in itself is
important but there this young guy named
Samuel Adams who 30 years later will end
up being a leader of the American
Revolution he's in Boston where a lot of
these battles in the street are taking
place and what he does is he writes an
article for a local newspaper and he
says these Sailors are defending the
rights of democracy in the
streets he says they are proving the
equality of all people see he couldn't
say that they were proving the rights of
Englishmen because they weren't all
English they were a mly crew so that
forced his thinking into a more radical
channel of the rights of human beings
and this language the language is kind
of shockingly similar is exactly what
Jefferson draws on in writing the
Declaration of Independence so there you
have a circulation from a pirate ship to
a Portside mob to political discourse
and the coming of revolution
thank you stas you want to ask a
question Hi Marcus um I like uh writing
on the pirate wave uh in the end of Essa
David uh talks about agoraphobia and the
circus about uh
how it is necessary to scare people away
from democracy and therefore uh media is
uh purging any displays of uh Agora and
instead uh promotes uh pictures of a
circus that the picture of a purge where
like democracy is presented uh in a in a
form that people wouldn't want to to
pursue uh does a picture of a media
picture of a pirate is that uh that part
of a circus ugly mirror how David calls
it well look the point that you're
making is uh is really crucial the the
forces of democracy in throughout the
early modern era were presented as a
monster a many headed Hydra now they
didn't have uh images that they could
show although they did draw great male
illustrations of many headed Hydra uh
but there were many terms of insult to
try to marginalize and rationalize the
punishment of uh rebellious people so
this I think is is more or less constant
over time and especially this use of
monstrosity uh this is this is really
critical so in this sense the uh the
pirate is is one example the pirate was
was a real monster to to the authorities
and a very dangerous one and not just
because they attack the ships of wealthy
merchants but because they dared to live
in a democratic and egalitarian way now
there's a funny twist to
this because in popular culture Pirates
are depicted now as u a man missing a
hand and has a hook and missing a leg
and has a peg leg and missing an eye and
has an eye patch and has a parrot on his
shoulder what's fascinating to me is
that all all of those things can be
linked to the difficulty of the working
Life Of Sailors in which people were
constantly maed right so even in The
Stereotype there is a there's kind of a
deep truth as they try to deradicalize
the pirate for popular culture and
especially for the consumption of
children uh it is nonetheless true that
that that History of Violence remains
there so so I think uh this idea scaring
people uh from the practices and
realities of democracy is real and it's
a very old
tactic any more
questions then
um then Scott do you want to ask
yourself
um yeah sorry if there's any background
noise here yeah it's just a comment that
the mention of mountains as a space
that's harder for the state to control
reminded me of the zapatistas as a
potential recent
example absolutely right it's a perfect
modern example but here's here's the
problem these autonomous spaces are with
all of the new technologies drone
technology um especially these
autonomous spaces are getting harder and
harder to
find so let's let's realize that the
authorities recognize that and that they
want to eliminate these autonomous
spaces they want actually to crush the
examples of people who live uh in new
and challenging ways this this has also
been a constant pretty much throughout
history the use of violence to suppress
alternative communities I think
everybody knows about that so uh so yeah
I think the
the zapis are a very good
example yeah I also want to add Roa that
David was writing so much about and he
was specifically saying that Ro is
crushed because it's Democratic and
feminist and peaceful and this is an
example that should be punished for that
particular
reason um Edward Edwin Everhart please
sorry if I pronounce the name
incorrectly okay it's very wonderful um
so uh I remember a a lecture that noi
Sakai was giving he's a a literary
scholar of Japanese literature and other
things um and he had this point that the
West is this bankrupt concept um that is
just very you know very empty and that
it's this mere distinct distinguishment
distinction against the against Asia in
in his in his discussion and it's it's
just merely a cardinal direction and so
this seems like it's uh you know
emphasized to the extent to which it's a
distinction it's it's versus the other
it's like like with whiteness it's
invented at the at a moment of like
creating a new kind of Oppression um and
uh you know but it's it's quite empty as
a signifier um and I was you know I
wasn't necessarily expecting uh David's
article to be citing Sakai but uh just
uh you know if there seems to be
consensus that the West is a bogus idea
um so I think that's true and you can
look at other examples of your point uh
we could talk about Edward S and
orientalism in other words that one of
the power moves of Western Civilization
is to denigrate for the sake of
domination all of the other
civilizations and cultures out there it
is really a a move for
superiority um and U I think the
relationship with Japan does illuminate
that thank
you uh John is asking how do you fit
into this Narrative of democracy from
below the many instances of um uh
approachment of mly crew type groups
with the Imperial states such as the
private the state recognized maroon
communities even someone like Thomas
Payne yeah I would say that co-optation
is always a potential issue
that one of the things that rulers did
in Jamaica for example was to recognize
the autonomy of certain maroon groups if
they would act as a police force and
return fugitives back to the
plantations uh so this is true this is
true uh privateers is another example uh
this the state will try to use the mly
crew whenever it can and it does
successfully do that but here's the
here's the important point and I think
David understood this very well when you
organize the cooperation of
people their work to serve capital in
the state once they are organized among
themselves they can do something else
with that
cooperation and this is the kind of
dialectical beauty of it that the the
hands as Sailors were called who sailed
the ships that created massive capital
accumulation would join hands in a mutin
or an uprising and building a pirate
ship that is totally unauthorized
cooperation so uh so I think we need to
keep that in mind it's always a struggle
solidarity is never automatic never
structural never to be taken for example
it has to be worked for it has to be
built and it has to be uh
reproduced it's uh it's all highly
situational based on what people think
they can do and this is another another
thing even though those Maroons acted as
a kind of police force they were
nonetheless a tremendous inspiration for
other Freedom seekers in other words
it's not just one or the other you can
have it both ways and I think Pirates uh
were a
tremendous um epitome of freedom for the
common sailor and for lots of others
cotton ma the Puritan
U minister in Boston would give speeches
the hangings of pirates and he would go
home and write in his journal why does
everybody see these people as
Heroes they did see them as Heroes they
stood up for the powers that be and uh
they would turn out for these uh
hangings partly just to cheer them which
is why they were always armed soldiers
in front of the Gallows to keep them
from rescuing
Pirates as before they were
hanged so we can take one last question
uh who wants to ask Simeon
Gallo do you want to ask a
question um yeah it's just about the uh
in the many headed Hydra there was when
you talk about the the ideas from the
revolution the Christopher Hill stuff
circulating were was that basically
people who'd been arrested and
transported or were these was there were
there actually pamphlets and manuscripts
that were circulating I I'd asked a a
historian in England who was actually
kind of a Cavalier historian and he said
no no no of course not no such thing
ever existed but do you know is there
archival stuff about that there's
there's not much archival stuff but what
there is is a lot of documentation of
extremely worried Elites uhuh yeah who
say uh there's a there's a an uprising
of indentured servants in in
1672 and the authorities say oh my God
it's levelers and diggers and ranters
it's all of those people they've come
over here now some of those people uh
were arrested and then because of the
labor shortage of the new world they
were shipped over there as indentured
servants but other other radicals
traveled freely some people joined the
uh military join the Navy or the Army
and then when they get to a place like
Jamaica they desert and so the ideas
come ashore in their bodies so I guess I
would come back here to uh David's point
that uh civilization is not just about
reading pamphlets right that that the
the ideas are carried in people's
memories and in their practices you have
white Sailors joining maroon communities
occasionally it's kind of fascinating so
uh so we just gotta think more about how
radical ideas circulate in ways that
aren't often captured in the documentary
record okay thanks yeah you tell that to
your Cavalier historian yeah yeah I will
okay thank you so much Marcos So yeah
thank you we we released this as a video
our YouTube channel and um yeah and then
just hope to see you again sometimes in
in The
Institute thanks for everybody from
turning out and and let me just say keep
the spirit of David Graber alive thank
you okay bye
everybody bye